10th - NST
Neural Style Transfer (NST) is a technique in deep learning that combines the content of
one image with the style of another image to create visually appealing artworks. The process
involves optimizing the pixels of a given content image to simultaneously match the content
features of a content image and the style features of a style image. This optimization is
achieved by minimizing a specific loss function.
steps -
1. Content Representation:
 - The content of an image is captured by the high-level features extracted from a pre-trained
convolutional neural network (CNN). 
2. Style Representation:
 - The style of an image refers to its texture, colors, and visual patterns, which are captured
by the correlations between different feature maps across various layers of the CNN.
3. Total Variation Loss:
 - To ensure smoothness and continuity in the generated image, a total variation loss term is
often added to the optimization function.
4. Optimization Process:
y iteratively updating the pixel values of the generated image, NST seeks to find an
image that preserves the content of the content image while adopting the style of the style
image.
Application - fashion design, content creation.


9th - ANT Colony
Ant colony optimization: inspired by working of ants in real time where the ants performs a specific task collaboratively and communicated with each other through pheromone trails
In ant colony optimization artificial ants are generated
steps:
1. initialization:
pheromone trails are initialized with equal probability for each artificial ant
2. ant movement:
ant constrcuts the path by selecting the next city from the set of cities by communicating through pheromone trails
3. updating pheromone trails:
as soon as the ant visits the next city it updates to all other ants through pheromone trails which helps to make better decisions abt next city
4. Termination:
repeat the steps until the path reaches the initial location
Application - Food delivery, logistics.


8th - DEAP
Distributes evolutionary algorithm, Genetic algorithm is based on process of natural selection and mutation. 
It considers the individual with best survival of fittest values
Starts by-
Initialisation - Gather a subset of individual candidates or individual solution against an optimisation search problem
Evaluation - each individual is assigned with an fitness score
Selection - bàsed on the fitness value best surviving candidates are selected
Crossover - genetic material of parent individual are mixed to produce an off spring
Mutation - used to introduce diversity in data set for best optimal approach
Replacement and termination - the new off spring with low fitness value is replaced from more optimisation and past generated off spring dataset
And is terminated upon reaching the best optimal solution
Application - Travelling salesman problem and travel routing.


7th - Immune
mimic the working of biological immune system.AIS mimic the adaptive and self-organizing capabilities of the human immune system to detect and respond to pathogens (antigens) in the body.
They incorporate concepts such as antigen recognition, clonal selection, affinity maturation, and immune memory.
steps:
1. antibody representation: in AIS antibody is represntated in data structures
this are converted into vectors or strings or graphs
2. clonal selection: based on the affinity score antibodies are selected for the process of cloning
3. Immune memory: AIS maintains the memory of past encounters with antigens so that they can perform for similar cases
4. Immune dynamic response: AIS can reponse dynamically due to which it can adapt to changing environments effectively
5. Artificial Selection:from the process of affinity maturation and immune selection, AIS can refine their antibody population for better optimal solution
Application -network intrusion detection, anomaly detection,pattern recognition
